=head1 RTIR Tutorial

=head2 Incident Response Workflow

RTIR automatically creates four RT queues for tracking incidents: Incident
Reports, Incidents, Investigations and Blocks.

=head3 Incident Reports 

Incident Reports is where new reports appear. When a user sends email to the
address you set up, RTIR automatically creates an Incident Report (IR), and
sets its due date according to your organization's SLA rules. New Incident
Reports appear on the RTIR main page, ordered by due date.

=head3 Incidents

Once you've verified that a new Incident Report is valid, you can create a new
Incident from it, or link the IR to an existing Incident. RTIR fills in
relevant information from the Incident Report, so there's no need to
cut-and-paste. If you receive multiple reports about the same issue, you can
link all of these reports to the same parent Incident, to keep them together.

=head3 Investigation

From an existing Incident, you can launch an Investigation to an outside party,
asking them to look into and/or fix the problem. Once again, relevant
information from the Incident is filled in when you create the new
Investigation, so there's no need to cut-and-paste.

=head3 Blocks

Blocks are used to track the blocks placed on the borders of the network. You
can create them from an existing Incident. Some sites don't require blocks, so
they may be disabled by your Administrator.  Blocks have several states: pending
activation, active, pending removal, removed.  These states can be set from
sub-menu items on ticket display pages.

=head2 Operations with tickets

=head3 Creating tickets

=head4 Suppress sending emails

During creating of a ticket in RTIR, user may check box next to 
"Don't send any emails to correspondents" phrase, this will
suppress all outgoing emails to all correspondents. Note that
this works only during creation and later user will recieve other
emails according to configuration of notifications.

=head3 Merging tickets

If it turns out that two Incidents are actually the same
(which can occur when, e.g., dynamic IP addresses are
involved), they may be merged. The merge operation effectively
makes one ticket out of two, containing the data and
correspondence of both. Only tickets within the same queue
should be merged, with the notable exception of merging an
Incident Report into an Investigation when a correspondent's
reply accidentally could not be recognized as such and thus
got misfiled as new Incident Report.

When a user opens a ticket's display page there is a 'Merge'
option in the page's tabs. The Merge page is split into two
blocks. The first one is a list of other children of the parent
Incident(s) of the current ticket. It's empty if the ticket is
not linked to any Incidents or if there is no candidate to
merge into. By default this page contains only active tickets.

The second box contains other tickets you can merge into,
tickets are grouped by queue, if it's possible to merge the
ticket into a ticket in another queue. (for example, you can
merge an IR into an Investigation). Note that if a user
merges an IR into an Investigation then Investigation is always
used as the target ticket.

You have to select one ticket from the list and submit the form.
If the merge completes successfully, you'll be redirected to the 
target ticket's main page. The action may fail because of lack of
permissions or a system error, in this case you'll see an error
message, consult to your system administrator.

When the merge page doesn't have the ticket you're looking for,
you can click 'Refine' to adjust the search conditions before
returning to the merge page by clicking the 'Merge' tab.

After the merge, the IDs of both tickets point to the target
ticket, so you can still use the old ticket's ID in the subject
of replies, but RTIR will send new notifications with an ID of
the merged into ticket.

The merge operation B<can't be reversed> and should be used with
caution.

=head4 Technical details

There are some technical details users may be interested in.

The merge operation is pretty straight forward, everything that
RT can merge from the source ticket is added to the target ticket.
When only one value can be selected, RT prefers the value from
the target ticket, so the result of the action depends on the
direction of the merge: "merge ticket #1 into #2" is not the same
as "merge ticket #2 into #1".

When you merge ticket #1 into #2 some properties of ticket #1
are joined with respective properties of ticket #2: TimeEstimated,
TimeWorked, TimeLeft, Requestors, Cc and AdminCc and links.
Duplicated links or watchers will be condensed, also if there
were links between tickets #1 and #2 then RT will drop them.
Other fields from ticket #1 are ignored, such as state, queue or
custom fields of single value type. By default RTIR shows only
active tickets as candidates for the merge, so you have no way
to merge a ticket into one that's been resolved or rejected,
but you should note that merging into a resolved ticket (you can
change search conditions via refine tab) is not the same as
resolving ticket and RTIR will not send notifications in this case.

Users can merge tickets only if they have the right 'ModifyTicket'
on both tickets.

You, also, can access RT's generic merge from an RTIR ticket's
'Advanced' tab. This option allows user to merge any ticket into
any avoiding 'the same queue' and other restrictions RTIR has.
For example you can merge an Investigation into an IR, or an IR
into a ticket in non RTIR's queues. ACL checks still apply.
In the normal course of work, this operation should be avoided.

=head3 Splitting tickets

The Split operation allows user to create a new ticket from an existing one.
When a user selects the 'Split' tab he will see a new ticket creation form 
with information pre-filled from the original ticket, for example Subject, 
Owner, Correspondents(Requestors), Ccs, AdminCs, as well as the original ticket's
history, formatted as text in the message box. The user can change any and all
values before splitting off the new ticket.

"Split" tickets can only be created in the same queue as the ticket they're
split from.

Note that the split action is implemented over "create" function and if
your RTIR is configured to notify requestors (correspondents) then mail(s)
would be send after split. However you can use "Don't send any emails to
correspondents" checkbox from the split page to avoid notifications.

=head3 Rejecting an IR

Rejecting means "we're not going to work on the ticket". There are several
reasons to do this: the ticket is spam, problem wouldn't be solved, it's
out of scope or something else. Rejected tickets are still available for
searches and can be reopened, but RTIR's default interfaces are designed
to hide such tickets, so people can concentrate on new and open tickets.

When you open a ticket's display page there is a 'Reject' tab. You click
it and see 'reject Incident Report' page with a box for message and other
common input fields. You can write a message and choose whether it would be
comment or response, by default correspondents don't receive comments.
You submit the form and RTIR sets state of the ticket, records the message
and unlink the IR from any Incidents.

If you don't want to write any comment or change any properties of an IR
during reject action then you can submit the reject form immediately or
use 'Quick Reject' tab and reject the current IR without even opening
the reject form.

=head4 Rejecting many IRs at once (bulk reject)

On the RTIR home page at the bottom of 'New unlinked Incident Reports' box
you can see 'Bulk Reject' link. Following that link you can open interface
for rejecting many tickets at once. The interface has a buttons to
check/uncheck all tickets on the page or you can select particular IRs
with checkboxes. To reject tickets you submit the form with 'reject' or
'reject and return' buttons, by clicking the former one you stay on the
'bulk reject' page, while the latter one returns you to the RTIR home page
where you could continue your work.

As well, link to 'Bulk Reject' operation exist at the bottom of searches for
'Incident Reports', so you can go to RTIR's 'Incident Reports' menu, refine
search conditions if you like to, and from the page with results go to
'Bulk Reject' operation.

Using this interface you can reject IRs that have links to Incident(s) what
may be undesired, so search results on 'Bulk Reject' page have column
'Has Incident?' which indicates wether a IR linked to Incident or not.
However this column is only informative and you still can reject IRs
that are linked to an Incident.

Note that you can't reject IRs that are owned by somebody else (you can,
however, reject unowned IRs) with the bulk reject interface. IRs owned by
others will be skipped with a warning even if you selected them.

=head3 Abandoning Incidents

This operation is quite similar to rejecting an IR, but when you're
abandoning an Incident you also reject IRs, resolve Investigations and
remove Blocks linked to it.

Once you open the Abandon page under the Incidents tab you see a list of its
children grouped by queue. You can select children with checkboxes, only
children you've selected will be rejected, resolved or removed.

Resolution of the Incident is set according to C<%RTIR_CustomFieldsDefaults>
config option and by default its value is "no resolution reached", however,
you can choose any value you'd like to.

You can write a message that that will be added to the selected children as
a comment or response according to value of 'Update Type' field.

Once user submit the form RTIR updates selected tickets and then checks
state of children of the Incident to decide whether it's OK to abandon it
or not. In the simplest case the Incident you're abandoning has children
that aren't linked to another open Incident, RTIR marks the Incident
as abandoned if all children are closed(resolved, rejected or removed)
otherwise you see a notice "State of the Incident left unchanged; not
all children were updated". The latter case may happen when the user's
selected not all children.

RTIR supports IRs linked to many Incidents and in this case abandoning is
a little bit trickier. When you're abandoning an Incident linked to an IR
that is linked to another open Incident, RTIR doesn't reject IR, but adds
a comment to the IR telling that the Incident has been abandoned while
this ticket is still linked to open Incident and left unchanged. In such
situation the Incident is abandoned.

=head4 Abandoning many Incidents at once (bulk abandon)

Use a bulk abandon subtab under the Incidents tab to abandon multiple
Incidents at once.

=head3 Locking

B<Note> that this functionality is available only when L<RT::Extension::TicketLocking>
extension is installed.

An automatic lock is created whenever a user performs an action on a ticket that
takes multiple steps (unless a hard lock is already in place for that ticket).
The following actions produce an auto lock:

    - Edit
    - Split
    - Merge
    - Advanced
    - Reply
    - Resolve
    - Reject
    - Comment
    - Remove

Locks are advisory: if a ticket is locked by one user, other users
will be given a notification (in red) that another user has locked
the ticket, with the locking user's name and how long he has had
it locked for, but they will still be allowed to edit and submit
changes on the ticket.

An auto lock is removed once the user is done with whatever he was doing
on the page (e.g., when he clicks "Save Changes" on the Edit page).
It is also removed if the Unlock link is clicked from a page that generated
an auto lock.

For more information, see L<RT::Extension::TicketLocking>.

=head3 Correspondence

=head4 Reply to Reporters

This operation lets you send a message to all of the parties who created
IRs. You may exclude individual recipients by removing the check next to
their name.

=head4 Reply to All

This operation lets you send a message to all of the parties who created
IRs, those involved in the Investigation, and those involved in the
Blocks. You may exclude individual recipients by removing the check next
to their name.

=head4 Correspond with Correspondent

This operation lets you send a message to the parties involved in an
Investigation. This is available when you "Reply to All" on an Incident.

=head3 Linking

=head4 Linking IRs to Incidents

When creating a new IR, you may enter the ID number of an Incident in the
"Incident" field. This will create a link from the IR to the Incident.

If you have an existing IR, you can link it to an Incident by clicking the
"[Link]" button next to the "Incident" field. You may also create new Incidents
and linking them to this IR by clicking the "[New]" button next to the
"Incident" field in the "The Basics" section of the IR display.

=head4 Linking Incidents to IRs, Investigations, etc.

You may link Incidents with existing Incident Responses, Investigations,
Blocks, and RTFM articles. On the Incident display page there are sections for
each of these, each with a C<Link> button and the list of already-linked
tickets. Clicking on C<Link> lets you link one or more tickets of that type to
the Incident.

Clicking on C<New> (or in the case of Investigations, C<Launch>) lets you
create a new tickets and link it to the Incident automatically.

=head3 Resolution

=head4 Resolving an Incident

Once you open the Resolve page under the Incidents tab you see a list of its
children grouped by queue and common update form. You can select children
with checkboxes. Only children you've selected will resolved.

You can write a message that that will be added to the selected children as
a comment or response according to value of 'Update Type' field.

Once a user tries to resolve an Incident, RTIR checks the state of that
Incident's children to decide whether it's OK to resolve it or not. In the
simplest case the Incident you're resolving has children that aren't linked to
another open Incident, RTIR marks the Incident as resolved if all children are
closed(resolved, rejected or removed) otherwise you see a notice "State of the
Incident left unchanged; not all children were updated". The latter case may
happen when the user's selected not all children.

=head4 Quick Resolve

Incidents and IRs have a "Quick Resolve" feature. Clicking Quick Resolve will
change a ticket's status to 'resolved' immediately. You won't be asked to
fill in a message or time worked, attach files, and so on.

=head3 Investigation

=head4 Launching an Investigation

To launch a new Investigatin, create a new ticket in the Investigation queue.
You will be required to link the Investigation to an Incident, and provide one
or more correspondents.

=head3 Blocks

=head4 Creating a Block

To create a new Block, create a new ticket in the Blocks queue. You will be
required to link the Block to an Incident.

=head2 Managing 'RT at Glance' and 'RTIR home' pages

You can add/delete or reorder portlets on those pages using preferences.
Either you can click 'Edit' link or Preferences and then goto subtab
you're interested in.

Page is splitted into two columns, however you can leave one column empty
if you need wider one-column layout.

=head3 Available portlets

=over 4

=item QuickSearch

Lists RT's queues with summary on numbers of active tickets in those.
Allows you to quickly jump to all active tickets in a queue or to tickets
with particular status.

Note that RTIR's queues are hidden from the list as QuickSearch box
is not flexible enough to build desired report by RTIR's states.
New/open/stalled statuses just don't make much sense in RTIR, so we
hide RTIR's queues. Use /RTIR/Elements/QueueSummary portlet instead.

=item /RTIR/Elements/QueueSummary

Lists RTIR's queues with summary on numbers of active tickets in those.
Allows you to quickly jump to all active tickets in a queue or to tickets
with particular state.

=item Other

There are more portlets you use which names are quite self-descriptive.

=back

=head2 Custom fields

=head3 IP

This custom field allow you to associate IPs or IP ranges with a ticket.
You can enter information in several formats:

* IP - single IP with decimal units separated by dot;

* IP range - interval separated with C<->, for example C<192.168.20.0-192.168.20.255>,
both ends of the interval are included range;

* CIDR block - IP range in the CIDR format, for example C<172.16/24>, as you
can see short form is also supported, RTIR converts ranges in this format
to IP-IP form.

You can set value of the custom field on create or later through edit page of a
ticket. You can enter several values at once, one per line or comma-separated,
as well you could mix different formats. Create or update action fail if you
enter incorrect values with an error message, you should fix the problem and
resubmit the form. On creation, IPs and CIDR blocks are also parsed from the
body of the message and added to the ticket.

=head4 Searching by IP

You can use the same input formats to search by IP, CIDR or range. On a query
builder page you can see input box for IP condition, enter an IP, range or CIDR
and add the condition to the current query, return back to search results.
You should see tickets that have at least one IP from the range. But you
should note that validation of the input is not implemented in the query
builder and you may enter incorrect value, be careful.

=head2 Glossary

=over 4

=item active ticket

Within RTIR a ticket is C<active> if its state is C<new>, C<open>, C<pending
activation>, C<active> or C<pending removal>. See also C<inactive ticket>.

=item inactive ticket

Within RTIR a ticket is C<inactive> if its state is C<resolved>, C<rejected>,
C<abandoned> or C<removed>. See also C<active ticket>.

=back

=cut
