=head1 Multiple Constituency Functionality

In some cases, your incident response team may provide
services to multiple different "customers" or constituent
groups. For example, you my provide incident support for both
educational and governemental institutions.
You may have different contact mechanisms for members
of these groups including different email addresses for reporting
incidents. For a variety of reasons, it makes sense to identify and
separately track interactions with these individual constituencies,
particularly when handling incidents.

However, it also makes sense to use the same tools when
working on these separate sources of data. Depending on the
constituency, different users may wish to work on incidents within
different queues or have access to incident data held within different
queues. Members on the education response team may not have privileges
to see information on government incidents, so you need to be able to
assign user privileges depending on the constituency.

With some additional configuration, RTIR provides a flexible system
that supports setting up multiple constituencies with different
incident handling and access rules. These configurations all run
in a single RTIR instance with shared workflows and global
configuration that applies to all constituencies. This guide
will help you configure RTIR to manage multiple constituencies.

=head2 Definitions

A constituency is defined by:

=over

=item  *

Its name.

=item  *

Its correspondence email address.

=item *

Associated ACLs (rights and permissions for queues, tickets, etc.)

=back

A ticket is assigned a constituency in a few different ways:

=over

=item *

On new incoming incident report, the constituency is preset
automatically based on the email address the email is sent to
(the correspond address).

=item *

Any new incidents created from incident reports, or blocks and
investigations created from incidents, inherit the constituency
from the launching ticket.

=item *

You can manually assign the constituency to any new tickets created
in the RTIR web interface.

=item *

You can manually change the constituency of a ticket and all its
related tickets.

=back

Of course the last two points require that the user has the right to do so,
according to the ACLs. All tickets must belong to a constituency.

=head1 Implementation Details

=head2 Mandatory

The constituency field is a mandatory field, so users must select a value
when creating RTIR tickets.

=head2 Constituency Values

Constituency is a custom field that applies to all RTIR queues. The RTIR
administrator can manage the field and its values via the web interface at
Tools -> Configuration -> Custom Fields -> click on Constituency custom field.
At the bottom of the page in the Values section, you can add, delete, and
rename values, and change the sort order.

However, to get advanced control over constituencies you have to create additional
objects in the system. The steps below describe how to do this manually. A
script (F<bin/add_constituency>) is also provided which helps add new constituency
values, along with their associated groups and queues. These queues are there only 
for technical reasons and are only visible for administrators of RTIR.
The script is located in the F<etc> directory in your RTIR distribution.

Then assign users to their corresponding F<DutyTeam> to give them control over
objects from their constituency. As the permissions are based on the
F<constituency> field of the ticket there is no need to move tickets
from one queue to the newly created constituency queue.

=head2 Manually Managing Constituency Values

In some simple configurations, administrators may use the web interface
to add, delete, or rename values for the 'Constituency' field, however
if you need the advanced access control RTIR's Constituencies system
provides, you need to create several queues and groups for each
value.

For example the following objects affect the rights users can have to
the constituency 'EDUNET':

=over

=item * Queue 'Incident Reports - EDUNET'

=item * Queue 'Incidents - EDUNET'

=item * Queue 'Inestigations - EDUNET'

=item * Queue 'Blocks - EDUNET'

=item * Group 'DutyTeam EDUNET'

=item * Group 'ReadOnly EDUNET'

=back

These queues are used to store limited per-constituency information for
tickets in the master queue. For example, you
can set the constituency base correspond and comment addresses.

See L</"Access Control (ACLs)"> below for more about granting rights using
special queues and groups.

=head2 Constituency Propagation

The C<$_RTIR_Constituency_Propagation> config option determines
how constituency values are inherited between linked tickets.
There are three option: 'no', 'inherit' and 'reject'.
These algorithms are defined in L</Constituency Propagation Options>.

=head3 Introduction

Before discussing constituency propagation in depth let's look at
the primary ways of setting and changing the Constituency field.

=over

=item Creating a new ticket without links

This is the simplest case. A user creates a new ticket and there is no reference
to an existing ticket. For example, the user creates
an IR using the web UI by clicking RTIR -> Incident Reports -> Create,
fills in values, and leaves the Incident input blank. In this case
Constituency will be set to the default, set in C<%RTIR_CustomFieldsDefaults>
in the RTIR configuration, or to the value the user
selects.

=item Creating a new ticket with a link

RTIR allows users to create new tickets and link them with another
as a single step. For example a user can create a new IR from an Incident
or launch an Investigation from it. When a ticket is created based on an
existing ticket, we can use the core information from the existing ticket,
including the constituency value. In this case, the configuration option
defines whether the user is allowed to manually change the constituency
value.

=item Creating a new ticket with Incident Id

This case is similar to the first case, but the user provides
an Incident Id in the Incident field. Since the new ticket references
and existing ticket, constituency logic can come into play as
noted in the second case.

=item Updating an existing ticket

Users can edit an existing ticket and change the Constituency value,
and this can affect linked tickets as well. This case in
particular is controlled by the propagation option you set.

=back

=head3 Constituency Propagation Options

The three propagation algorithms are available:

=head3 no

This is the default algorithm. Any combinations are allowed. Users can link
tickets with different constituencies. Changing the value on a ticket doesn't
affect linked tickets. However, reasonable defaults are still used. For example
when a user creates a new ticket from another one we select constituency of the
existing ticket by default instead of using the default value from the config.

=head3 reject

This algorithm doesn't allow a user to link tickets with different Constituency
values.

Users cannot change the Constituency value when creating a new ticket from
another one.

When linking tickets together, the list of possible constituencies is restricted by
the constituency of the former ticket, so the user may not choose targets with different
constituencies.

The Constituency value on an existing ticket can be changed only if
the ticket is not linked to any other tickets.

=head3 inherit

This algorithm is something in between no and reject. Operations are not
rejected; instead we prefer the value of a new incident when a user links tickets
together.

If the user uses New or Launch links on the main view of an incident,
investigation, incident report or block to create a new linked ticket then
the creation page contains a predefined value for Constituency and can't be
changed at this point.

The Constituency value can be changed on existing tickets, even if
the ticket has other tickets linked to it. In this case, RTIR
updates all related tickets during the update, so all continue to have
the same value.

Note that while linking tickets together, the list of possible candidates
is not restricted by the constituency of the initial ticket, so a user may
choose targets with different constituencies. In the latter case the incident's
Constituency value is always preferred.

=head3 Advanced Linking

The Advanced tab allows you to do things that generic RTIR
interfaces don't, so you can merge arbitrary tickets, move tickets between
queues and, most important for constituencies, it
allows you to link tickets with different constituencies even if
the propagation algorithm is set to 'reject'.

Permissions (ACLs) are still applied to such operations, but administrators
should note that by default links don't require bi-directional ACL checking.
This means a user does not need the ModifyTicket right on the ticket they
are linking to in order to set up a link. This behavior can be changed using
the C<$StrictLinkACL> option in RT's configuration.

=head2 Outgoing Mail: "CorrespondAddress" and "CommentAddress"

If you create queues as described in L</Managing Constituency Values>,
the queue correspondence and comment addresses will override
the original queue's where possible.

For example, if a user replies to an IR with constituency EDUNET and RTIR
sends notifications, the correspond address of the 'Incident Reports - EDUNET'
queue is used in notifications, if one is set. If the field
is empty, the correspond address of the 'Incident Reports' queue is used
unless it's also empty. The last fallback address is the C<$CorrespondAddress>
in the RT's configuration file.

It is important to note that these additional configuration do not also
add new mail routing rules.  It is your responsibility to configure
rt-mailgate to handle mail coming to the constituency correspond
addresses.

=head2 Presetting Constituency from Email

Many mail transfer agents (MTAs) allow you to specify a flag on any incoming
email message by appending "+flag" after an email address. This option
is supported by postfix, sendmail, qmail, exim and others, though the "+" delimiter
has different defaults on some systems and can be customized by a site's systems
administrator.

RTIR's multiple constituency support uses this extension mechanism to allow
a single queue to receive mail for multiple constituencies. If you have two
constituencies, EDUNET and GOVNET, you might set up RTIR's "incident report"
address as follows in /etc/aliases:

    edu: abuse+edunet
    gov: abuse+govnet
    abuse: "|/path/to/rt-mailgate ...mailgate options..."

The rt-mailgate script expects the MTA to set the EXTENSION environment variable
with a value of "flag." The script adds this value to the incoming message in
the 'X-RT-Mail-Extension' header field. If an incoming mail has
'X-RT-Mail-Extension: <valid constituency value>' header field then a new
ticket is created with Constituency set accordingly.

The Constituency field is mandatory so if the mail gate is not configured
then the default value from the config is used.

=head2 Access Control (ACLs)

RTIR allows you to grant additional rights to tickets based on their
constituency by means of "pseudo" queues ("Incidents - EDUNET" for
the EDUNET constituency on the Incidents queue, for example).

For example, assume you have two constituencies "EDUNET" and "GOVNET".
Your RTIR instance consists of four queues: Incident Reports,
Incidents, Investigations and Blocks. To grant the user Edward
the right to work with EDUNET Incident Reports, you'll need to
create a new queue, "Incident Reports - EDUNET". Make Edward an
AdminCc of the new queue, either directly or as a member of a group
like "DutyTeam EDUNET".

You should grant that user or group the rights you want them to
have to tickets in the "Incident Reports" queue. It is important
that you I<not> grant the user or group "queue-wide" rights such as
"See Queue" or "Create Ticket" in the pseudo-queue as the system
will apply those rights to the pseudo-queue "Incident Reports -
EUDNET" and I<not> to the "Incident Reports" queue.

Note that templates, custom fields and scrips can still be applied to
pseudo queues, but in the current implementation these objects have
no effect on the RTIR behavior. This may be changed in the future.

=head3 Constituency Specific Groups

For each Constituency value, the RTIR admin can create a group
'DutyTeam [constituency_value]' using either the web UI or the script.

We've added some automation for such groups. Those groups
are added as an AdminCc to a ticket according to value of the field
and you can grant additional rights using this assignment. For example
if you grant the 'TakeTicket' right to the AdminCc role on the IR queue
then users that are members of the 'DutyTeam EDUNET' group will have
this rights on all EDUNET tickets.

Note that this method has some limitations and caveats. Users who
have enough privileges still can add other users and groups as
AdminCcs of a ticket and these principals will get the same set of
additional rights that constituency-specific groups get via the AdminCc
role. Since this uses the AdminCc role to grant constituency rights,
you cannot use the role to grant one set of rights to group X and
another set to group Y.

Also, by default AdminCcs are notified on many ticket actions,
so this feature can be a little bit noisy for members. You either
can disable notifications of AdminCcs or disable this functionality.

If you want to disable this functionality you just have to disable
"SetConstituencyGroup" scrips in RTIR's queues. These scrips add or
replace group in the AdminCc list when people set or change the ticket's
constituency. If you still need more control over ACLs then you
can use the pseudo-queues to add this control.

=head3 DutyTeam Group vs. Constituency Specific Group

By default DutyTeam has almost all rights on all RTIR's queues. This
group's rights apply to tickets with all constituencies, so if you
want to give access to group 'DutyTeam EDUNET' on EDUNET tickets only,
then you don't want to make this group a member of DutyTeam.

In RT/RTIR you cannot deny a right for a subgroup of a group if the
parent group has it, so you should avoid adding groups into groups with higher
privileges. We suggest leaving DutyTeam and constituency specific groups
on the same level, however, you can join them using a new top level
group.

The same rules apply to user members of groups. Rights of all groups
a user is a member of are summed up and if he is a member of DutyTeam with
default of rights then he has more rights than any member of
a constituency specific group (who is not member of other groups).
Considering the above suggestion, a good way to manage users is to place
each user in a constituency specific groups based on their access needs.
Place users into DutyTeam only if they should work with all constituencies.

=head2 Constituency issues

Constituencies are very heavyweight, they add extra code to many
permission checks in the system and also greatly complicate the number
of groups and group members in the system.  If you are not going to use
this functionality, you would be well served to disable the Constituency
Custom Field, which will cause RTIR to remove a number of added
complexities.

Additionaly, while RT 4.2 has shipped with the config option
C<$UseSQLForACLChecks> defaulted on, it is not compatible with Constituencies.
If RTIR detects that it is being started with Constituencies enabled it
will disabled C<$UseSQLForACLChecks>.  Overriding this means that any
part of the UI trying to show a list of tickets (such as the RTIR
homepage or any search results) will be empty for users in restricted
Constituency DutyTeams.

