
=head1 NAME

Net::Whois::RIPE::Iterator - iterator for RIPE object's.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Net::Whois::RIPE;
 use Net::Whois::RIPE::Iterator;

 $whois = Net::Whois::RIPE->new($host);

 $iterator = Net::Whois::RIPE::Iterator->new($whois,$query);
 while ($obj = $iterator->next) {
     ...
 }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Implements an iterator for Net::Whois::RIPE::Objects.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=over 4

=item B<new (WHOIS, QUERY)>

The constructor returns undef on failure. If B<debug> is on then a message
is carped about the failure.

I<WHOIS> is an object of class I<Net::Whois::RIPE>

I<QUERY> is a query string to be sent to the I<WHOIS> object to
retrieve the whois objects.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<next()>

Returns the next I<Net::Whois::RIPE::Object> from the query.

Returns undef if no more objects.

=item B<debug(LEVEL)>

Sets/gets debugging level on the class or an object.

 0 - no debugging
 1 - debugging on

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

 Kevin Baker, <shagol@users.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

 Net::Whois::RIPE
 Net::Whois::RIPE::Object

=head1 COPYRIGHT

 Copyright (C) 2000 Kevin Baker and APNIC Pty. Ltd.

 This program is free software; you can redistribute it
 and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
 License as published by the Free Software Foundation;
 either version 1, or (at your option) any later version.

 This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU General Public License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
 License along with this program; if not, write to the
 Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
